Mohnish: Sure. I always tell people who are introducing me that the thing that they
should not skip in the introduction is that something I am very proud of is I got
a lifetime ban at a casino in Vegas that told me I could never play blackjack at
their casino. I told them, “I'm not counting cards because normally you ban
people who are counting cards.” They said, “Yes, it took us about six months to
figure it out, and yes, we agree you are not counting cards, but we cannot win
against your system.” I asked them if they would give me a letter, a graduation
certificate, and they said, “No, you are just banned.” Anyway, I have been a 

student of Buffett, Munger, and Graham now for almost 30 years. I heard about
Warren Buffett for the first time in 1994, and it opened a big new world for me.
I had never bought a stock before that never really worked in the industry, and
I was intrigued and fascinated as I read the first few biographies that had come
out on Buffett, then the Berkshire letters, and then the Buffett partnership
letters. I just kept reading and learning and started to follow that approach in
94.
About five years later, I had some friends who asked me to manage money
formally for them. The small amount, eight guys, a total of a million dollars. That
is what led to the formation of Pabrai Investment Funds. I did not plan at that
time for it to become a full-time vocation. I thought it would be just something
on the side for me and my friends. I manage about 900 million now. It is mostly
high net-worth families. The funds have been around for about 24 years. Over
the years surprisingly, Warren and Charlie both became friends, which was not
expected. We always think of them as icons never to be touched, met or
interacted with, so that was interesting. I used to play quite a bit of bridge with
Charlie on Fridays at the LA Country Club, which he does not do now because
he is not so mobile. That is kind of a quick backdrop.
Interviewer: Before we get into the world of probabilities and kind of ask you about
investing, we came across your Dakshana Foundation, if I have pronounced
that correctly. Can you tell us a little bit about that before we go into the rest
of the interview?
Mohnish: Yes, sure. Just yesterday there was news in the New York Times that Chuck
Feeney had passed away. I do not know if you guys are familiar with Chuck
Feeney, but there is a book called “The Billionaire Who Wasn't” and it is a great
book to read. Chuck Feeney, over his lifetime, gave away about eight billion
dollars or more to charity. He tried to do it anonymously. He went to great
lengths to make sure that the recipients did not know who the person giving
the money was. His objective was to die with zero. He was 92 when he passed
away. A few years back, maybe three or four years back, he moved into a simple
rental apartment in San Francisco. He was down to his last two million. He
pretty much accomplished what he sought to do, which was to die with zero.
That is what I am trying to do; live up to the Chuck Feeney standard and die
with zero. I am going to be leaving planet Earth on June 11th, 2054, about 30
years and a few months from now. One day before that, which is June 10th,
2054, I hope to be down to a hundred dollars. There is one engine, which is
compounding assets and increasing wealth, and there is another engine
Dakshana Foundation which is focused on giving it away.
I started the Dakshana Foundation about 17 years ago because I knew that
trying to start this when I was 70 or 80 years old, I would not have much energy
to do anything. We started small about 17 years ago, and the idea was to
become good at giving money away. Giving money away effectively is far more
difficult than making money. Dakshana Foundation has done far better than I
expected. It has been very effective at giving. We identify very poor, but
brilliant kids in India who come from families, which are typically making well
under a hundred dollars a month; three to four dollars a day or less. Some of
them make two dollars a day. What we do is we take over their education for
about two years from 16 to 18, and we get them to the IITs which are like the 

MIT of India or AIMS; like the Harvard Medical School of India. It does a full reset
for the family and the community because their income levels go to world
standards at that point. Currently, Dakshana Foundation is spending about
three million dollars a year. The objective is that we just started a program of
about 13 million CapEx in the next three years to increase our capacity. The idea
would be that hopefully if the compounding engine works in the next three
decades, then the giving engine needs to work even better because as we
compound money, then I need to amp it up like Mr. Feeney. That is what
Dakshana Foundation is all about. I like to play games; I like to play blackjack.
Dakshana Foundation is a game. Pabrai Investment Funds is a game. Bridge is
a game. I just like to play games.
Interviewer: That is nice. You have mentioned in the past that, correct me if I am wrong,
when you were growing up, your dad was an entrepreneur and you would see
him many times start new businesses, and those businesses not doing very
well, and then he would start all over again. We thought that it would be nice
to start our conversation about how that experience shaped risk for you.
Mohnish: That is a great question. My dad was exceptional at identifying offering gaps in
the market. He was good at looking at what was going on around him and
saying, “This product or this service does not exist, and I know that if I create
this product or service, it is likely to do well.” His hit rate on those was extremely
high. In India, there was no ecosystem of venture capital or anything, or even
bank financing for that matter. When he had a startup, he repeatedly started
with zero, and he was almost always right about the opportunity. He was very
good at identifying those gaps that existed. The issue he had was that he was
an eternal optimist, and he was in a hurry. Once the business got going, he
would want to grow it as fast as possible. These businesses typically had a very
thin layer of equity and capital and as much leverage and debt as the banks
would give them. He would constantly be maxing on the leverage to grow as
quickly as possible, and the moment the first headwinds would show up, and
there would always be headwinds, we always have headwinds in business, he
would go back to square zero. These businesses just were not built to
withstand, even the lightest winds because they were always levered to the hilt
and they would invariably crumble and fail because the ecosystem also was not
there, that you could get other financing or someone to give you equity or
something like that. He would go back to square one and amazingly he would
in a few months concoct a new idea and get going again. I saw him do this
repeatedly. He was a very logical engineer, a kind of rational thinker.
I remember that one time when I was about 10 years old, there used to be an
astrologer who used to come to our home on Sunday, wearing orange robes
with all these marks on his forehead. My father would sit with him and ask him
about the future. The astrologer would give my father various data points of
what was going to happen. Then next Sunday, the astrologer will be back. I
mustered up the courage to go up to my dad and said, “You got to know that
this guy is full of shit. He does not know anything. We do not have money.
Everything is gone. You give him money every week, and then he shows up the
following week. Why would you want to do this?” He said, “When I give him
money and ask him about the future, he gives me a very rosy forecast for what
is about to happen next in my life. I suspend reality when he is talking to me
like that. He is the rope. I am at the bottom of a very deep well, and I need a
rope to come out of that well. He is my rope because he tells me stories about 

new businesses that I am going to create, that they are going to prosper, and
that things are going to be great. That is my rope to come out of that well, not
be depressed, and start the next business.” That was the experience.
The impact it had on me was that I was lucky that my dad was doing well when
it came time for my brother and me to go to college. He wanted us to come to
the US for college, and thankfully he could afford it at that time. We came to
the US and I studied engineering. I planned to never, ever be an entrepreneur
and never start any business because I had seen these huge durations up and
down, and I just did not want that. I thought, “If I get a good engineering
degree, I am going to get a good job, and I am always going to be able to have
a job, and life is going to be stable. Fifteen percent is going to go into my
retirement account, into index funds, and that is going to grow.” My dad visited
me about three years after I started working. He told me that he was
disappointed and that he had all these aspirations of what I might do, and here
I was, a cog in the wheel of a large company. I told him, “Do you remember my
childhood? Do you remember the trauma?” He said, “That was all excitement in
life. We cannot have a boring life.” He was able to prevail over me, and I moved.
I left my job, started my first business, and then went from there.
Interviewer: That was a great story. We have read the book “Richer, Wiser, Happier” by
William Green, and you profiled in there. The main thing around your profile is
about cloning and how you have made your career out of being a great cloner.
Can you tell us a little bit about what you were doing when you were cloning
and who the people of your cloning or the subjects of your cloning were?
Mohnish: Yes. Charlie Munger talks about these mental models, and cloning is a very
powerful mental model. One of the weird, unusual things about humans, and I
still do not know why this is the case with humans, is that most humans have a
strong aversion to cloning. I am not sure where that comes from in evolution,
but they think it is beneath them. They almost think it is like copying. Moreover,
a lot of humans will believe that, for example, Starbucks is such a great idea,
but it has already been done or, SoulCycle is a great idea, but it has been done.
There is room for many Starbucks and there is room for many versions of the
same business. That is the other thing that humans have a false mental model
where they see that someone has done something innovative, and they think
that it has been done and there is no opportunity there. We run into some
humans, for example, if you look at a company like Microsoft, they spent so
many billions of dollars a year on R&D, they have got Microsoft Research, which
in several decades, more than four decades has produced nothing. They just
keep having these very smart Ph.D.s funded. Nothing comes out of that lab. But
what has worked for Microsoft is they saw WordPerfect and they cloned it and
created Word. They saw Lotus 1, 2, and 3 and created Excel. They saw Netscape
and, created Microsoft Explorer and now Edge. They created Bing. You know
what Bing stands for, but it is not Google. All the successes Microsoft has had,
have come from being an intense cloner. Apple invented the mouse Apple
copied the mouse from Xerox PARC Labs. Microsoft wanted to make the mouse
work in the MS-DOS and Windows world, which was a big challenge because
of a very different architecture, and they were just dogged about it. Finally, the
engineers were able to do it; they created Windows. Microsoft is not even a
great clone. Windows took 15, or 20 versions before humans could use it, and
they still complain. It is not as good as that. Even not being that great a cloner
gives you a huge advantage. 

Sam Walton with Walmart, for the first 15 years or 20 years of Walmart’s
existence, there was absolutely nothing new that Walmart came up with. It was
a completely cloned model taken from Kmart and Sears. Sam Walton spent an
incredible amount of time in his competitive stores. Whenever he was traveling
anywhere to see any Walmart new locations, he was always going into the retail
stores of even small, mom-and-pop competitors. He did not care if they were
big or small or successful or not successful. Even from a failing retailer, he
would find something that they were doing that he could copy from them.
Walmart built on that. Even a company like Starbucks, Howard Schultz looks at
the cafes in Italy and says, “This can play in Peoria, Illinois.” He clones it, and it
does play. Then he went upscale with Starbucks Reserve and all of that. What I
have found over the decades is that number one, most humans for whatever
reason, think cloning is beneath them, and number two, that if you do not
follow that bar, it is going to give you a huge leg up in life.
Dakshana Foundation is a cloned model. I found a guy who was doing
something smart. I wanted to fund him but he did not want to scale. Then I
asked him, “Do you mind if I copy your model?” He said, “No, not at all. I would
help you.”
Pabrai Investment Funds was cloned from the Buffett partnerships. The Buffett
partnerships had these unusual rules from 1956 to 1970. He had the greatest
record. When I was starting Pabrai Investment Funds in 1999, it was three
decades after Buffett had shut down. In three decades after he shut down what
is arguably the most successful hedge fund ever, no one had cloned his model;
no one had cloned his fee structure. Nobody wanted to do it that way. I was
surprised. I told myself, “Do not be surprised, Mohnish. This is the way humans
are. They want to leave all these opportunities for you because they do not
want to clone.” I have so many investors who will not invest in a fund, which
charges a one or two percent management fee. We charge no management
fee, and I did not come up with that. I have copied that from Warren. You latch
onto a demographic that wants that; they want the aligned interest of the
investment manager, and it works. I have found in the investments that I have
done well; many of those have been cloned. Business models have been
cloned; the charity has been cloned. I have no original ideas. I am just a
shameless cloner.
Interviewer: I got a follow-up to that. In terms of cloning, can you ever get to the point
where there are too many cloners? Let us take Berkshire Hathaway for example.
Back in 1979, there were 20 people, or 20 potential cloners who sat there
listening to Charlie and Warren. Then in 2015, there were 44,000 potential
cloners. Does it ever get too competitive, or, is it quite a difficult thing to do?
Not everyone can be as successful as you have been with cloning for whatever
reason.
Mohnish: Now the Berkshire annual meetings are online. Millions of people listen to
those. All the past meetings are online on buffett.cnbc.com. It has been in the
public domain for a long time. How many companies do we have that have
cloned the Berkshire mark? Almost zero, because the thing is that cloning does
not work unless you are fanatical about it. Sam Walton was a fanatic. Bill Gates
is a fanatic. It is the fanatics who can make this happen, not the people who
say, “I think this is going to work. Let me give this a go.” If you have that type of
approach you got to go all in. Again, for whatever reason, very few humans are 

willing to go all in. It is the intensity of the pursuit. I am not concerned that
cloning is going to stop working because the cat is out of the bag, or because I
am doing this podcast. It is going to be alive because many humans have an
aversion to it. The ones who do not have aversion are not fanatical about it. The
other piece is that there are so many areas available for cloning. Even if one
area becomes somewhat competitive, you have so many other greenfield areas
you can go into.
Interviewer: Mohnish, correct us if we are wrong. When you started your career with the
very big influence of Warren and Charlie, and this even comes across in your
first book, “The Dhandho Investor,” you were leaning more toward the
Benjamin Graham side of value investing. However, as your career progressed,
you seem to have leaned more toward the way that Charlie and Warren think
about the world. Has your perception of risk changed because you have
become more experienced or because it has been influenced by the way that
they look at the world?
Mohnish: Ben Graham’s framework is like bedrock. All of us need that bedrock. The ideas
that the stock is not a piece of paper, ownership's stake in a business, and the
concept of margin of safety, those ideas permeate across, whether you are
doing pure Grammy investing or going with the Buffett or Munger approach of
the great businesses, they all use this underlying bedrock. The reality of the
situation is that we will make a lot more money by having ownership stakes in
businesses that grow dramatically in value over time. If I bought a business for
40 cents on the dollar and that dollar never grew, or it grew at a low rate, I might
make two or three times more, but if I even paid 60 or 70 cents on the dollar
for a business that was growing, 10, 15, or 20% a year, and I did not pay that
much of a premium for that, clearly that is going to be a vastly superior
approach, not to mention far more tax efficient, because you are not each time
paying Uncle Sam when you sell and want to look for buying again.
The other piece is that there are only so many great ideas one is going to find
over a lifetime. The idea that Ben Graham had is that you sell a business when
it gets at or near its perceived intrinsic value is at odds with the theories of Phil
Fisher, for example, whose perspective was that a great business may surprise
you about its real intrinsic value. Intrinsic value is a very difficult thing to figure
out for most businesses. The odds that you may be wrong about an assessment
of intrinsic value can be extremely expensive. The model of giving a great
business a lot of rope, which is holding it beyond the point at which you think
it has passed, its intrinsic value would be blasphemy in the world of Ben
Graham. However, that approach is extremely important for true wealth
creation over long periods. Ben Graham himself made most of his money from
owning one business for many decades, which was GEICO. The GEICO
ownership violated the core principles that he was espousing and teaching. He
just felt like he could not teach the approach to finding or holding a GEICO as
easily as he could teach a quantitative approach to investing. Even in Graham's
case, half his net worth when he passed away was GEICO, and it had trounced
the S&P by seven, 8% a year over the long holding period. A Swiss Army Knife
approach to investing is probably best. There are times that we are going to
find anomalies where some grow that much but are cheap and are very stable
and could give us a great return for some time when we do not have a great
business that is obvious to buy. If we are in the fortunate situation of finding a
great business with a great runway, then we want to hold onto those for dear 

life. This is a big mistake I made for many years where I was buying well below
intrinsic value and selling right at intrinsic value.
Interviewer: Mohnish, you brought up GEICO there. That takes us to the subject of
insurance. One element of the Berkshire model is insurance and having some
insurance to have a flow to invest. At one point in time, you did have an
insurance company, but you chose not to take that on in terms of copying the
Berkshire model. Can you talk a little bit more about owning an insurance
company and why you did not decide to take that on?
Mohnish: That is a good question. Warren has repeatedly said that insurance is a
commodity business. It is very difficult. There are some pockets within the large
insurance industry where one can have a sustainable competitor advantage,
but by and large, the bulk of the industry operates in a commodity-like manner.
If I am a small business and I am looking for workers' compensation insurance,
for example, I am going to take the low bid. I may take the low bid amongst Arated or B-plus-rated carriers, but once a carrier or insurance company is Arated the lowest price wins. Most insurance companies do not have pricing
power. Warren has also said that the average insurance company is a terrible
business. What I realized almost right after I acquired Stone Trust Insurance
was that at the first board meeting, it became clear to me that this was not the
place I wanted to be. It was a very commodity business. They were a price taker,
and their dumbest competitor was selling price. I felt that rather than go deeper
and deeper, getting more and more pregnant with this situation, I wanted to
put the toothpaste back in the tube, so to speak, which is not always easy to
do. Toothpaste is only designed to come out of the tube, not go back in. I
decided I was going to reverse a course, and we decided to sell the insurance
company. We were able to sell it for just about what we bought it for, which I
thought was a very good outcome. We were able to return most of the capital
that we had raised back to the investors. The person who bought the insurance
company from me is extremely happy with Stone Trust. The difference is that
he is a vastly superior operator than I am. I remember that when we sold the
company to him many years ago, the premiums we were collecting every year
were about 65 million dollars a year. We sold the business maybe six or seven
years ago. The premiums last year were 50 million dollars. It is down 30%, but
the combined ratio of that business is 62% unheard of in the insurance business.
Francis Chu, who bought the business from me, is an unbelievably great
operator. He has got decades of experience. I would never have been able to
do what he did. It was a win-win for everyone. It gave Francis a platform to
build the insurance side. The interesting thing I learned, and this goes back to
the concept of great businesses and then the mistakes in investing, is that
investing is a very forgiving business. Even the best investor is probably not
going to be right more than half the time. You are going to have a 50% error
rate. I realized that when we had bought the insurance company, that was a
mistake. I thought, “Can we reverse because it is going to consume a lot of brain
cells in an activity that I do not want to particularly be focusing on.” That is what
ended up happening. I learned quite a bit. I am very grateful for the experience.
Being able to see the insurance company from the inside, they were very good
people. To be able to see the claims at an individual claim level and, kind of
seeing how the sausage is made, if you will, has been a great experience for
me. It taught me a lot and I am sure it can help in the future. Even in the case
of Berkshire Hathaway, Charlie Munger said a few years back that in the very
distant future, insurance may be a small business at Berkshire. It would not 

surprise me that when Ajit Jain is no longer running things they may elect to
run off that business because I have not heard of them having a second Ajit. A
lot of that business only works because there is an Ajit, just like Stone Trust only
works. After all, there is Francis Chu. These unusual insurance operators are
very rare. It is a difficult field.
Interviewer: Can I ask about that? If Francis was fantastic on the underwriting side, was
there any chance for you to partner and you be on the investment side, and he
would be on the insurance side in a similar way that they have a Berkshire?
Mohnish: Well, we are old too soon and wise too late. When Francis was buying the
business from me, he begged me to keep a stake. He said, “Mohnish, I want you
to keep 20%, 25%, whatever you want. Let us do this together.” Because I had
seen this business up close, I probably underestimated what Francis was all
about. If he made that offer to me again, I would take it. At the time, he
repeatedly kept asking me, because there were earnouts. We had our future
payments based on how the business performed. Each time, he made an earnout payment to us because the business performed extremely well. Again, he
asked me, “Do you want to roll this into a stake?” and I kept saying “No.” Francis
is an exceptional underwriter and operator and a good investor, but he is an
example of a guy who has always stayed with Graham. He is a classic Graham
investor. In a situation where Francis is the operator on the insurance side and
someone like me is on the investment side, we would do even better. It would
do very well. That would be a good marriage. Part of the reason it would be a
good marriage is because he is such a great guy. In terms of trust chemistry
and competence, we would have a lot of fun with that. We are both young. It
might happen at some point.
Interviewer: I would have thought that the reason why you at the time thought that it was
not going to work out was more related to how regulation has changed over
the decades. That might limit your capacity to do that great business in the way
that they were able to do it with Berkshire. Is that a misunderstanding?
Mohnish: Well, Berkshire has some very subtle aspects of its insurance business that are
not available to most other insurance companies. Insurance is regulated by the
state in the US. The regulatory framework for insurers based in Nebraska is
vastly superior to most other states. One of the things I had almost finished
doing before France had bought the business was that I had redomiciled. We
had started the effort to redomicile the business in Nebraska because I realized
once I was in the business, and I looked at the different state laws, that it was
an advantage to be domiciled in Nebraska, even if you were not writing a lot of
business in Nebraska. There are reciprocal arrangements that the different
states have which give Nebraska insurers some advantage. I do not know
whether that advantage came about because Warren was able to work with
the regulators to change some of the frameworks over the years. The first is
that the state of Nebraska has a better regime for insurers who are good at the
investing side. The second big advantage that Berkshire has, which people do
not understand, is the insurance companies Berkshire has, are heavily
overcapitalized. If a regulator says that if you are writing 100 dollars of
premium, I want to see a 100 dollars of equity. In many cases in those
businesses, Berkshire has 500 dollars of equity. When you have 500-dollar
equity and you are writing a hundred dollars of premium, this is the same
situation that now Francis finds himself in at Stone Trust because their 

premium volumes have dropped so much, and their surplus has increased so
much. The regulator is going to give you a lot of leaving. To give you an
example, when Berkshire bought the Burlington Northern Railroad, normally
just at the highest level, what regulators want in terms of an insurance
framework is they want to float invested very conservatively into fixed income
because that is going to be used to pay people in the future. They do not have
a problem with the surplus being invested in equities, because that is kind of
the backup for the insurance. In the case of Berkshire, the regulators in
Nebraska have given them the freedom to even invest the float in equities.
When Berkshire went to them and said, “Look, we are going to buy this railroad
and this railroad. You need to think about it like a bond. If you think about the
way the railroad operates and look at the long history of the railroad, it is
producing 5 to 10 billion dollars a year in cash flow. It is a bond with a variable,
and we are going to put this railroad inside the insurance company. When you
think about the way the float is allocated and the surplus allocated, please think
of the railroad portion being part of the float.” The Nebraska regulators
accepted that. What happened is that they paid about 40 billion dollars or so
for the railroad. If they were to sell the railroad today, my guess is it would sell
for something north of 120 or 130 billion dollars. Its value has more than tripled,
excluding all the huge dividends it has paid out over the years. Now, the
Nebraska regulators love the whole railroad sitting inside because they can see
the value compared to the publicly traded railroads. Recently, interestingly, just
in the last few weeks, Berkshire did a filing where they showed that they have
moved the railroad out of the insurance company. I know that would have been
a fun conversation with the regulator because the regulator said, “No, no, we
like the insurer. We like the railroad,” and Berkshire would have said, “Well, look,
I got 700 dollars of equity or a 100 dollars of premium. I am still going to be 400
dollars of equity or 400 dollars of premium. It is still like four times what anyone
else has. Do you have any concerns?” One of the things that Buffett did a long
time ago in the eighties; they had a lot of trouble with some insurance
operations. Some of these things were horrendous. One hundred and thirty
percent combined ratios, or 140% combined ratio. They were upside down.
These companies were eventually liquidated. They did terribly. They could
never fix them. They liquidated them. What Berkshire did at the time when they
liquidated these companies is that the parent company stood behind the
claims, which they did not need to do; they had no obligation. These companies
were in real trouble; horrendous combined ratios. They were going to be
liquidated. Their business model did not work. Berkshire at the parent level did
not have an obligation to pay off all claims. It was non-recourse. The claims are
only to be paid to the extent that those companies had capital, but those
companies ran out of capital. What Berkshire at the parent company did is they
stood behind those claims and they paid every single one of them. The
regulators believe that in the case of Berkshire, there is an implicit guarantee
on these claims. It is not an explicit guarantee; it is an implicit guarantee. That
is kind of like Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, being implicit guarantees of the US
government. The regulators will always look very favorably upon Berkshire
Hathaway because of that history. Other insurance companies do not have that
type of reputation with the regulators.
Interviewer: That is interesting. I am going to change topics a little bit here. You have been
gifted with a mind that is very well suited for math and thinking in terms of
probabilities and that probably has helped your career in the way that you have
made decisions over time. For those who do not have that inclination or who 

have been educated to think probabilities, what would be the best way for that
person to learn to adopt probabilistic thinking?
Mohnish: Probabilistic thinking is very important for investing because everything is
probability. Being a good bridge player is a great way to build that probability
muscle so you can have fun. Bridge is a very fun game. It is a very easy game to
learn. It probably will not take more than 30 minutes to learn the game, and
one cannot master it even in a lifetime. It is a great game to continuously keep
learning. Buffett and Munger have gained a lot from playing games like bridge.
I came to play bridge separately from investing. I played bridge for many years
before I became an investor. It was a coincidence for me that I was playing and
love bridge, but that can help the probabilistic thinking. Even when one is
studying businesses and studying histories of businesses and trying to
extrapolate where they are going to go and what they are going to be, one is
going to see a range of outcomes. That is just the nature of the way the world
works. If one is just good at that type of thinking which games like bridge or
blackjack can give you then you are that much ahead.
Interviewer: This probably ties in with one of our final questions, which is about the way that
you run your portfolios. Mohnish, you famously run very concentrated funds. If
we can go back to the topic that we started with, which was around risk, how
do you arrive at that decision to run with those concentrated funds?
Mohnish: Well, if you study the subject, the amount of benefit you get in terms of
diversification and reduction of risk starts to go down quickly as you add more
positions. If you had a single stock portfolio, that is at the end of the risk curve.
But once you are in about four or five positions in different industries, you are
already quite diversified. Once you take that number up to ten, that is a
significant, diversified portfolio. But when you take it from 10 to 20 or 30 or 50
now you are hurting yourself because the minimal benefits you would get from
diversification would be more than offset by the lack of knowledge of those
businesses. When we stay very narrow, we are going to be at the epicenter of
our circle of competence. We understand those businesses well. As you start
layering on more things and more companies there is going to be a variance in
terms of how well you know the businesses. Not knowing the businesses well
enough, even in a highly diversified portfolio, is risky. From my point of view,
once we get past a few names, the risk profile does go down.
Interviewer: One thing that has come up on the podcast several times is the idea of
ergodicity. The idea is that there is a difference between your time-weighted
returns and just an ensemble average. That has implications for the chance of
ruin over time. Something that is on an expected value basis looks like a good
trade to make. If there is a chance of ruin, then that may not be as appealing as
you think. If you run with a concentrated number of holdings in your portfolio,
there is an increased risk that you have that chance brewing. How have you
thought about managing that risk through your concentrated portfolios?
Mohnish: Any number multiplied by zero, no matter how big is zero. We do not want to
go there. It is equity investing that a few of the decisions that you are going to
make are going to generate outsize returns. For example, if I were to look at
the Walton family owning stock in Walmart, Sam Walton during his lifetime,
and Walmart was not very valuable. He distributed the stock to his kids and he
passed away. There have been no Waltons running the business for several 

decades. There might be one Walton on the board, but I am not even sure if
that is true anymore. They have all held the stock and it probably makes up 90,
95% of their total assets. When you look at it from the outside, you will say, “Oh,
this is terrible. It is so non-diversified.” They probably know Walmart better than
anything else. If we step away from the public market for a second and look at
founders who create a lot of wealth with successful businesses, most of them
are not diversified. In many cases, the companies may not even be public. They
may have 90, 95%, or more of their net worth in a single stock, even when the
company is public. They may have a significant portion in a single stock. Of
course, they can be hurt, and we have plenty of cases where they can be hurt.
But the other side of the coin is that great investment opportunities are rare,
like when you find yourself in the happy position of owning a great business
that is not overpriced. That is a big sin if you start trimming because it is more
than 25% of the pie. I face this issue in real-time. We invested in a business in
Turkey Reysas, which was around 3% of the liquidation value when we invested.
The market cap was around 20 million dollars or so. The liquidation value was
600 to 800 million dollars. Of course, it was a no-brainer investment, and I was
surprised we were able to get a lot of stock. We ended up getting about a third
of the company for about 8 million dollars. Reysas now is valued at about 500-
600 million dollars, and it used to be until a few weeks ago, close to 800 million.
The value of business today is even higher because they have done a few things
in the last few years. The liquidation value of that business is well beyond a
billion. If I look at intrinsic value and not liquidation value, it goes well beyond
that. It makes up a significant portion of some of our funds. Every quarter when
I write to my investors, they will let them know we have got this issue, and I tell
them, “Listen if you are uncomfortable, you should get off the bus because we
are not going to lighten up.” I cannot justify lightning up Reysas when it is
undervalued when it has great management and a lot of great tailwinds, and
that comes with risk. But we are not going to find a Reysas every two years.
That is just not going to happen. Anything I replace it with, first, there will be a
big tax bill, but then anything I replace it with is likely to be inferior. The other
thing that has happened is in the last four years of owning it, we have gotten
to know the business a lot better than we knew it before we invested. Even
though I am not a founder or a person in the management of Reysas, I consider
it like a business my family owns. If there is a business like Walmart that your
family owns, it is probably not the best decision to start looking at, let me
diversify and this and that. It is a double-edged sword. It does come with risks,
but one of the things about investing is that if I look at my friend Nick Sleep in
the UK, he was very early in investing in Amazon. Amazon became a big part of
the portfolio for him, and the UK regulators were giving him some grief about
that. He and his partner looked at each other and said, “We have hundreds of
millions of dollars each, we never thought we would have this, even anything
close to this. Why should we let other people tell us what to do? What if we
returned everyone's money, and just managed our own money? Then whatever
Amazon becomes is nobody's business; whatever percentage of the portfolio.
Nick returns everyone's money. When he returned the money, he put
everything in three stocks. He put a third into Berkshire, a third into Costco, and
a third into Amazon. Of course, what happened is Amazon kept going like the
Energizer bunny; it never stops. It again became a very large portion of the
portfolio that he was running. It became more than 50 to 60% of the pie. At that
point, he got a little antsy about that and sold off half the Amazon position. He
bought a company called ASOS, also in the UK, which between us is not a good
business. It will never be a good business. From my perspective, it is a mistake 

for Nick to be investing in ASOS, and that is a greater risk than a business like
Amazon going to zero. If I look at a business like Amazon, it is multiple
businesses. It is not a single business. If you look at people like Jeff Bezos or
Andrew Jassy, what percentage of their net worth is in Amazon? My
perspective, if I were to be so bold as to critique that effort with Nick is he had
a very well-diversified portfolio with those three stocks. Each one of those
three companies is exceptional. Even if one of the three survived, he would not
be in the poor house. He would still be fine. If I were him, I would just leave
them all alone; let them all be. If Amazon becomes 80%, so be it. That is okay.
That is a good thing.
Interviewer: That is interesting. Thank you very much. Mohnish, given the levels of
concentration that you feel comfortable running as per what you just
explained, would it not be better for you to run a vehicle with permanent capital
rather than the current structure that you have?
Mohnish: What happens with all of us if we become very successful is the vehicles
eventually become permanent. If I look at Nick Sleep again, it is a permanent
vehicle because it is his own money now. The same thing happened in many
ways to Warren Buffett with Berkshire Hathaway. He was such a large portion
of the pie. I'm not particularly concerned about this; I do not get a lot of
sleepless nights thinking about permanent versus non-permanent capital. At
the back of my mind, I always feel that if everybody took all the capital away, I
still have a decent amount of my capital, and if I never managed anyone else's
money, I would still have a happy existence. It is possible at some point I could
involuntarily be turned into a permanent capital vehicle. If that happened, no
problem. If the investors choose not to have the confidence in having some of
their hard-earned assets with you, it is a choice they have and they can
continue with their choice, and that is perfectly okay. I do not see a big
compelling need or reason to change things from the way I am doing things
right now. I like the families that have invested with me. I like that most of our
assets are first-generation entrepreneurs who are still building wealth. Few of
them have retired and such. But it is a great mix. If that mix continues for a
while, that is okay, and if it comes to an end, it will not be the end of the world.
Either way is fine.
Interviewer: If I may ask a follow-up question on the Turkish example that you provided
before, when you are investing outside of the US in places like a marine market,
you are running a risk, which is not only the business risk itself, but you are also
exposed to the currency. Turkey has been going through a rough time over the
last two to three years. How do you think about that in the context of what you
were explaining and this subject of ergodicity?
Mohnish: Reysas is a good example to study from a currency point of view. Before we
invested, I fully expected that the Turkish Lira would get decimated. I expected
absolute clobbering of the Lira, and it had no impact on the investment decision
because I said, “If I have a warehouse in a prime location in Istanbul with a longterm inflation index lease with Amazon, Carrefour, or IKEA, that has a global
value and that value will prevail. Cement has a global value, and steel has a
global value. Prime real estate in a place like Istanbul has a global value. My take
was that even in extreme scenarios of currency decimation, we should be okay.
What happened is that when we invested in Reysas, it was five Liras to the
dollar. Today it is more than 28 Liras to the dollar. That is an 80-plus percent 

devaluation. In dollars we are up by 20 or 30 X and in Lira we are up by infinite
X, but who cares about that? There are two other investments I made in Turkey.
One was a Coke bottler and the other was an airport operator. In the case of
the airport operator, it was very simple because all their revenues are
contractually in Euros. Very little of TAB Airports’ revenue is in local Lira. A lot
of the expenses like staff salaries are in Liras. In that case, a decimating currency
would give them tailwinds because their costs would go down while their
revenues would stay intact, which is exactly what has happened. One of the
things that markets do is stereotype, and they use broad brush strokes. Turkey
was considered uninvestible; it was considered very investor unfriendly. Any
place you go to where the currency has a problem, most investments are not
going to work well. What I noticed is that the baby got thrown out of the
bathwater. When I sifted through, I met with maybe 60 or 70 listed Turkish
businesses over the last few years. Most of those companies are not invested.
They would face real headwinds in this environment, but there were a few that
the baby got thrown out irrationally. That is what we are looking for. We are
looking for irrational behavior amongst market participants. I am not so
concerned about the overweight risk of emerging markets or the
overweighting risk of currencies. What one needs is to be a rational investor
and accurately weigh those risks, not be paranoid about those situations. In the
case of the Coke bottler, around 70% of their revenue is not even from Turkey.
It comes from a dozen other countries. The same with TAB Airport. Even though
their currency is Euros, a large portion of revenues are coming from outside
Turkey. That was excellent because now it is a business listed in Istanbul facing
all the negative perceptions of investors leading to ridiculous and irrational
undervaluation. The second thing I noticed is that these three businesses, each
one of them had off-the-charts management, off-the-charts owners, and just
incredible capital allocation; better than what I would find in a lot of developed
markets. The quality of the people was extremely high, the competence of the
people was very high, and the integrity of the people was very high. A rational
investor should weigh all of these factors in making a decision. I have a lot of
comfort in the investment we made. The funny thing is that in the last four
years, the clouds over Turkey have not lifted. There are still a lot of big clouds
over Turkey. It did not stop Reysas from going up 20 times in dollars. It still got
there somehow. I do not know how it got there, but somehow it got there. That
is kind of how I see it.
Interviewer: Thanks very much, Mohnish. I can see from your background and for listeners
who cannot see it, you have got a wonderful library behind you. The signature
question that we ask all our guests is whether you have a book
recommendation. I have high hopes for your book recommendation.
Mohnish The book I read this year that I enjoyed a lot is called “What I Learned About
Investing from Darwin.” It was written by Pulak Prasad, from Singapore. It is an
exceptionally well-written book. He is an exceptional investor. I read it twice
because I enjoyed it so much and I felt like maybe I missed a few things. Pulak
has got a good sense of humor, so it is a page-turner; it will keep you occupied.
I made some changes to the way I invest after reading the book. There were a
lot of take-home values, so I recommend that.
Interviewer: What sort of changes did you make to your process after reading that book? 

Mohnish One of the things that Pulak brought up is that in the investments he makes,
one of his rules is that the companies cannot have any leverage. His perspective
on leverage needs to be zero. It is an extreme view. His logic for that is that he
feels that all companies are going to face tough times. Times are good, and
times are bad. That is the nature of business. When times are bad and the
business has no leverage, it can play offense. Whereas a highly levered
company, when times get tough, which I saw with my dad, you are just trying
to survive and you are trying to keep the wolves at bay. If you are looking at
companies that you want to be around for a long time, to finish first, you must
first finish, then reducing leverage or eliminating leverage is going to give you
a lot of levers that you can pull. Now, I have not gone a hundred percent down
the Pulak path, and of course, the portfolio takes time to change, but it is a very
important consideration. Much more important than it was before, where in
the past I would say, “Okay, the market cap is 5 billion and they have got 400 or
500 million debts. That is fine. Just move on.” I would not ask myself the
question, “Can this business be run without debt? Can they just eliminate
dividends for a couple of years and why is that debt out? Why aren't they doing
that? How do they think about it?” If you look at companies like Berkshire
Hathaway and the great businesses around, they have built themselves around
that. If you lever up a business, you are going to juice the returns, but you also
take away the resilience. This is just one of the points he makes. He has many
other points. Another interesting point, which I also adopted, is he does not
project. He has no projections for the future of what the earnings or cash flows
of any of his portfolio companies are going to be. That might sound like
blasphemy; how can you run a portfolio without peering into the future? He
answers that it is an exercise in futility because we are making assumptions. If
each assumption is off by 20%, what you have in the end is garbage. You have
four or five assumptions and each one is off by some small number, which is
going to create a big error rate. Pulak’s approach is to buy and hold forever. He
views any sell decision as a mistake. If you go on his website, they have listed
the entire portfolio. They run a hedge fund, but it is closed. They do not take
new money, but they have listed the entire portfolio, including every exit. The
whole thing is public. Their perspective is that “When we are going to go into
business and invest in a business, the holding period is forever. If the holding
period is forever, why are we messing around with DCFs and all that? It is
irrelevant.” 
