Dakshana Foundation

---

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A2vC2skCjCs
Mohnish Pabrai's Presentation and Q&A at FLAME University on December 25, 2023

Speaker:
I have another question regarding Dakshana in the report.
But EMRS on the SC/ST category, where $3.5 billion is expected to be put in by the government of India,
and you mentioned over there that it could take 10 to 15 years before we see some success or some growth.
How do you approach the milestones over 15 years when you are looking at that?

Mohnish:
We get the kids after 10th standard.
EMRS are schools for tribals.
the government has made a big step in terms of the amount of money they are putting into the tribal school, which is wonderful to see.
If they want to open a new school, it is going to take three or four years to open it.
You will get the land, build the infrastructure, spend the money, and create a school.
Then you will take the first batch in sixth standard and after 5 years or 6 years,
that batch will come to 10th standard, which is when Dakshana can deal with them.
I am already 9 or 10 years from today before I see that first batch show up and now it is a new school;
It takes time.
they have no history, they have hired new teachers, and the quality will not be that good.
It may be 20 years, or even 25 years before we can see the real thing,
and that also depends very heavily on the quality of the people.
The problem here is that you are talking about government employees, the principal of a government school, and administrators of a tribal belt school in a rural area.
For them to get quality teachers, even if they had the best management, would be extremely challenging.
we do not know they can make this money work even with all the best intentions.
There are a lot of challenges.
In Dakshana, one of the things that Buffett says about charity and investing is that they are so different from each other.
In investing, we do everything to minimize risk.
In charity, in baseball terms, he says that we should swing for the fences.
If you want to make a difference in charity, you have to go high risk, high return.
You cannot take the low-risk, high-return approach that we take in investing.
It is a completely different mindset where we should be very willing to lose money, and that is what we are doing at Dakshana.
we started a partnership with EMRS
2 of the guys running Dakshana are here, and they were telling me that we have had a long partnership with the Navodaya Vidyalayas school system.
For 16 to 17 years, we had a partnership with them,
on 1 to 10 scale, if the Navodaya management is 7 out of 10, the EMRS management is a 4 out of 10,
so that is an alarming statistic right there.
I have a lot of problems with Navodaya management.
There are a lot of issues we have run into with them which makes us roll our eyes.
But at the same time, the thing is that the scheduled tribe population of India is more than a hundred million,
and the scheduled caste population of India has been helped a lot by all the affirmative action programs.
They can almost get rid of the SE things; they can reduce that schedule by 80%, no problem.
It will not happen, but they could reduce it if they choose to.
But for the tribes, there has been no real progress in their per capita healthcare,
different metrics for 70 years, even with all the different reservations.
The tribal situation is bleak.
I was happy to see that Modi government is putting money behind it, but it will take more than money; it is very challenging.
At Dakshana, this will be probably 5 to 10% of our spending.
We can take a chance at 5 10%, no problem.

---


