Position Sizing
[reysas, efes, tav airports]
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A2vC2skCjCs
Mohnish Pabrai's Presentation and Q&A at FLAME University on December 25, 2023

Speaker:
When you saw Turkey being so cheap and abundant in supply as well as rising and good quality companies and you had a view,
how did you size up the position?
how did you execute the whole thing and what was the consideration in position sizing?
How many companies do you take up and can you just give some flavor of what it is?


Mohnish:
My sizing is really simple.
If I am going to take a bet, I ideally want to make it a 10% position.
I do not want to have 50 stocks in my portfolio.
I will not be able to come up with 50 ideas that I am excited about.
For practical purposes, it is a 10 by 10 portfolio.
If I am going to make a bet, I would like to make a 10% bet.

In the case of Reysas, I was managing about 700 million,
and our bet size was 8 million.
It was a little more than 1%, but I had no choice.
I could not put more into it;
I would have loved to have a 10% allocation to Reysas,
but the market cap is 16 million, so we cannot do much.
Efes I could take a full 10% position, no problem.
We only have three bets in Turkey.
We have another company which is TAV Airports.
They run airports in about a dozen countries.
They have an incredible management.
I like the team and I like their assets a lot. 

Those two businesses were large enough that I could put 10% of my assets into them.
On the other side, if it becomes a large position, I will not trim it because it is large.
One of the issues that came up was that I have three different funds in the US,
and the reason I have three different funds is that the regulations require me to separate the investors into different buckets.
One of our funds is an offshore fund that is for non-US investors and endowments and foundations and so on.
As it turned out, when we were making the bet in Reysas, a lot of the money came from one of the funds.
20% of Reysas, the warehouse company, is inside one fund, which now has about 270 million or something in assets.
The Reysas' position in that fund is about a hundred million.
It was a very small investment, but it has gone up a lot.
The value of the fund is close to 40%.
Every quarter I remind all my investors that we have a concentration situation here,
and I am not planning to trim the position because we are still sitting undervalued..
If you are uncomfortable, you can exit,
the business is sitting at probably one-third of what it should be sitting at.
That company may be worth 4 to 5 billion in 5, 10 years, or something.
That is how we have tried to allocate it;
make a 10% bet, becomes more in value, then that works out fine.
